Document `tsh` aliases usage. Change implementation details. (#14931)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/setup/reference/cli.mdx

      "Authorization": "Bearer tokentokentoken"
```

#### Aliases

> You can define custom `tsh` command aliases using the `aliases` section. It also allows for changing of the default flag values for existing commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Aliases allow you to define custom commands or change the default flag values for existing commands.
```

New command `tsh l`:

```yaml
aliases:

>     "l": "tsh login --auth=okta --username=alice"

Reviewer 2: Should not this and other examples use `$TSH` instead of `tsh`? To make sure that the same `tsh` is being invoked and not necessarily the one in PATH.

Author: Most users will only have a single `tsh` around. To that end `$TSH` is confusing and making the UX worse. I can see it being useful for Teleport developers, but that is a rather niche group compared to the rest of users?

Author: Thinking about it further, I guess we can add it as a hidden feature?

Author: Done: https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/pull/14931/commits/54dd074cf7c33afcbc90de70a0bbf137f025e810

Reviewer 2: I don't even think it should be hidden TBH, I would make it a default actually and document here. I'm not sure why it would be confusing, it's basically environment variable expansion which users should be familiar with. Otherwise people may be shooting themselves in the foot, I imagine someone just downloading tsh and not installing it in PATH and then aliases that just use "tsh" will not work (while `$TSH` will).

Author: Makes sense, I've added docs for `$TSH` along with the rationale.

```

Make `tsh status` use JSON as a default format:

```yaml
aliases:
    "status": "tsh status --format=json"
```

> Define custom command using with `bash`. The `$0` and `$1` variables will be substituted by command arguments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Define custom command using `bash`. The `$0` and `$1` variables will be substituted with command arguments.
```

```yaml
aliases:
    "connect": "bash -c 'tsh login $0 && tsh ssh $1'"
```

> The alias can use an arbitrary number of arguments. If a argument variable `$N` is referenced, `tsh` will check that at least `N+1` arguments were given to the alias invocation. All arguments that were given but not referenced in the alias definition will be appended at the end.

Reviewer: Did we do sufficient testing to ensure we don't panic with an index out of bounds error when the wrong number of arguments are provided?

Author: Yep, there are unit tests for this: https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/blob/24fcadc375d8359e80790b3ebeaa36bd8dd2822f/tool/tsh/aliases_test.go#L49

But do let me know if you see something missing, happy to add more tests.

Given configuration:

```yaml
aliases:

>     "example": "bash -c 'echo first=$0 $0-$1 $3'"

Reviewer: Interesting that we can allow for executing non-tsh commands. Did we do a security review of this feature? I'd be concerned about somebody dropping a config file in a particular location to create an alias that invokes some malicious code.

Reviewer 2: It's the same as with e.g. git aliases which allow you to escape to a shell (only with a bit different syntax) - aliases are local to the user's system and defined in tsh config so if an attacker has access to the system I think they can do more damage than override your aliases. I agree a security review is a good idea though.

Author: I can imagine an attack where the `--proxy` value is changed to an attacker-controlled modified Teleport cluster which captures any credentials used for logging in.

However, attacker capable of writing `~/.tsh/config/config.yaml` or `/etc/tsh.yaml` is likely to be able to modify `~/.bashrc` or equivalent. This is probably an easier and more stable exploit, too.

```

`tsh example 0 1 unused-2 3 unused-4` will expand to `bash -c 'echo first=0 0-1 3 unused-2 unused-4'`.

> To debug aliases, set the `TELEPORT_DEBUG=1` environment variable.

Reviewer: More of an issue for the code and the docs, but it's a bit confusing now that teleport respects both the `DEBUG` and `TELEPORT_DEBUG` environment variables (and they do different things)

Reviewer 2: Is this a new environment variable? I remember seeing it in the implementation PR but wasn't sure if it's new or not. If it's new, I agree it's confusing to have both.

Author: As far as I can tell, `tsh` did not respect `DEBUG` env var. Neither is new, both are next to each other:

https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/blob/24fcadc375d8359e80790b3ebeaa36bd8dd2822f/constants.go#L254-L266

We have had both `TELEPORT_DEBUG` and `DEBUG` for since 2016: 
https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/commit/21bd8caa4f31f05e0096cc94c25cf13ad91e394c#diff-25015a3bc3d26727834056ce5eb165af6fc8f8d5ee4142eb2a96872ec8fe501f

Between `TELEPORT_DEBUG` and `DEBUG` I think the first one is better: I can imagine the latter being defined for some unrelated reason.

Reviewer 2: Gotcha, yeah, this is unfortunate. A couple of nitpicks here: I would replace "to debug" with "to troubleshoot", and also would expand this sentence to explain what setting this env var will actually do. Will it print logs in the stdout/err?

Author: I've changed the wording slightly, added an example and explained the expected outcome (logs in the console).

> To disable an alias temporarily, set the `TSH_ALIAS` environment variable. `tsh` understands the value of that flag to be a comma-separated list of aliases it should ignore. For example, `TSH_ALIAS=connect,status` will make it behave as if those two aliases were not set. This environment variable is also used to prevent infinite alias loops from occurring.

Reviewer: `TSH_ALIAS` sounds like you're enabling something, not disabling something. I would recommend changing the implementation to `TSH_DISABLE_ALIASES` or something..

Author: This is an implementation detail though; I will remove it from the docs. Do you find `TSH_UNALIAS` a better name? Wink to http://www.linfo.org/unalias.html.

Author: See: https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/pull/14931/commits/fb89a2c9872818e21bc5d3d03fdc0aa61baf22be

> To disable an alias temporarily, set the `TSH_ALIAS` environment variable. `tsh` understands the value of that flag to be a comma-separated list of aliases it should ignore. For example, `TSH_ALIAS=connect,status` will make it behave as if those two aliases were not set. This environment variable is also used to prevent infinite alias loops from occurring.

Reviewer 2: This is an implementation detail, I'm not sure it belongs in the docs at all TBH. If we wanted to provide a way to disable an alias for a user, we'd need to come up with something more user friendly.

Author: Fair enough, I'm happy to drop it.

      "Authorization": "Bearer tokentokentoken"
```

#### Aliases

> Aliases allow you to define custom commands or change the default flag values for existing commands.

Reviewer 3: I think it would be helpful to include a sentence about when/why you would use this.

> New command `tsh l`:

Reviewer 3: I think we should expand this to indicate what happens when you define `aliases.l` (or another key under `aliases`). Do all keys within `aliases` become subcommands of `tsh`? Or does `l` have a special meaning?

Are there any restrictions on aliases? (e.g., multiple words, special characters, etc.)

```yaml
aliases:
    "l": "tsh login --auth=okta --username=alice"
```

Make `tsh status` use JSON as a default format:

```yaml
aliases:
    "status": "tsh status --format=json"
```

> Define custom command using `bash`. The `$0` and `$1` variables will be substituted with command arguments.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Define a custom command using `bash`. The `$0` and `$1` variables will be substituted with command arguments.
```

```yaml
aliases:
    "connect": "bash -c 'tsh login $0 && tsh ssh $1'"
```

> The alias can use an arbitrary number of arguments. If a argument variable `$N` is referenced, `tsh` will check that at least `N+1` arguments were given to the alias invocation. All arguments that were given but not referenced in the alias definition will be appended at the end.

Reviewer 3: - I would move this general explanation of the logic for checking and passing parameters above the "Define custom command" example. Otherwise, I got a bit confused as to how that example works.

- Does `tsh` only apply parameter checking/passing logic to `bash -c` aliases, or does it look for any `$[0-9]+` in an alias? What happens if there are numbered variables but no invocation of `bash` (or another shell that supports numbered variables)?

> Given configuration:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Given the configuration:
```

```yaml
aliases:
    "example": "bash -c 'echo first=$0 $0-$1 $3'"
```

`tsh example 0 1 unused-2 3 unused-4` will expand to `bash -c 'echo first=0 0-1 3 unused-2 unused-4'`.

> Alias definition can also reference `$TSH` variable. It will be expanded to absolute path to current `tsh` executable. This can be useful if there are multiple `tsh` versions installed, or the currently used version is not in `PATH`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An alias definition can also reference the `$TSH` variable. `tsh` will expand this variable to the absolute path of the current `tsh` executable. This can be useful if there are multiple `tsh` versions installed, or the currently used version is not in `PATH`.
```

      "Authorization": "Bearer tokentokentoken"
```

#### Aliases

Aliases allow you to define custom commands or change the default flag values for existing commands using the following syntax:

```yaml
aliases:
    "<alias>": "<command>"
```

> The `<alias>` can only be a top-level subcommand. In other words, you can define `tsh mycommand` alias but not `tsh my command`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `<alias>` can only be a top-level subcommand. In other words, you can define a `tsh mycommand` alias but not `tsh my command`.
```

New command `tsh l`:

```yaml
aliases:
    "l": "tsh login --auth=okta --username=alice"
```

Make `tsh status` use JSON as a default format:

```yaml
aliases:
    "status": "tsh status --format=json"
```

> The alias can use an arbitrary number of arguments. If a argument variable `$N` is referenced, `tsh` will check that at least `N+1` arguments were given to the alias invocation. All arguments that were given but not referenced in the alias definition will be appended at the end.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The alias can use an arbitrary number of arguments. If an argument variable `$N` is referenced, `tsh` will check that at least `N+1` arguments were given to the alias invocation. All arguments that were given but not referenced in the alias definition will be appended at the end.
```

Define custom command using `bash`. The `$0` and `$1` variables will be substituted with command arguments.

```yaml
aliases:
    "connect": "bash -c 'tsh login $0 && tsh ssh $1'"
```

Define custom login command where first argument specifies `--auth` option.

```yaml
aliases:
    "ap": "tsh login --auth=$0 --proxy=teleport.example.com"
```

Given the configuration:

```yaml
aliases:
    "example": "bash -c 'echo first=$0 $0-$1 $3'"
```

`tsh example 0 1 unused-2 3 unused-4` will expand to `bash -c 'echo first=0 0-1 3 unused-2 unused-4'`.

> Alias definition can also reference `$TSH` variable. It will be expanded to absolute path to current `tsh` executable. This can be useful if there are multiple `tsh` versions installed, or the currently used version is not in `PATH`.

Reviewer: Out of curiosity, how do you get the absolute path of the current tsh executable? Does your solution work on all platforms where we support tsh?

Author: Well, nothing special on that front, simply using existing code: `cf.executablePath, err = os.Executable()`. I think this is good enough to cover typical usage scenarios. I think this works for all platforms too?
